\chapter{Design \& Implementation}
\section{Vision Architecture}
    \begin{figure}[ht]
    \centering
            \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth, height=0.3\textheight]{overall_vision_architecture.png}
            \caption{BBAUV Vision Architecture}
            \label{fig:vision_architecture}
    \end{figure}
    
Our vision framework is implemented as a vision daemon running in the
background when the AUV is launched. The vision framework is  integrated
with ROS (Robotics Operating System) \cite{quigley2009ros}, an open
source meta-operating systems used widely in robotics which provides
message interface for inter-process communication (IPC). The vision
daemon will initialized a new tracker upon request from the user (if the
object is not currently being tracked). One advantage of this approach
allows for parallel development of vision algorithms before competition
which not speed up development but resulting in modular vision
algorithms that are substitutable. 
\section{Methodology}
Individual object trackers are implemented using a tracking-by-detection
approach where theese trackers had already been implemented and deployed
in Robosub 2016. Below shows the vision pipeline of the baseline object
tracker:
    \begin{figure}[ht]
    \centering
            \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth, height=0.3\textheight]{object_tracking_pipeline.png}
            \caption{Object Tracking Pipeline}
            \label{fig:object_tracking_pipeline}
    \end{figure}
    
\subsection{Preprocessing} 
Input image first undergoes preprocessing before being processed by
individual object detector. A design decision has been made to perform
preprocessing on demand to a) reduce computation cost and b) customize
preprocessing for different type of vision tasks. From past experiences,
objects with distinct color from environment and bottom-facing objects
can be detected without much preprocessing. Preprocessing can be
separated into color constancy algorithms and underwater image
enhancement algorithms. 

\subsubsection{Implemented Color Constancy Algorithms}
    \begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
            \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth, height=0.3\textheight]{color_constancy.png}
            \caption{Color constancy algorithms a) Original image b) Finlayson's comprehensive normalization c) Grey world d) Image Adaptive Contrast Enhancement (IACE) e) Non-iterative normalization f) Shade of Grey }
            \label{fig:color_constancy}
    \end{figure}
Various color constancy yields different results based on different
underwater conditions. We can observe that some color constancy
algorithms produce image with red hue which may affect performance of
color-based object detectors. It must be known that gamma correction is
performed after performing Grey-World algorithm to produce image with
sufficient lighting. \outcite{Gijsenij2011} suggests that several
approaches are combined to achieve optimal result. 

\subsubsection{Underwater Image Enhancement}
    \begin{enumerate}
        \item Gamma correction \\ To reduce effect of overexposure or underexposure because of camera settings. Sudden change in illumination because of cloud movement or position of the sun can be catastrophic.
        \item Homomorphic filter \\ To reduce flickering effect of bottom- facing tasks. This is implemented on the spatial domain \cite{nnolim2008homomorphic}
    \end{enumerate}
    
\section{Saliency Region Detection}
\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
            \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth, height=0.3\textheight]{saliency.png}
            \caption{Salient object detection of cylinders a) original image where color of cylinders severely degraded b) saliency map still mangages to capture the cylinders}
            \label{fig:saliency_detection}
    \end{figure}
The saliency detection approach of \cite{achanta2009frequency} is
implemented to detect salient objects underwater as competition
obstacles are often more salient than other features. Experiments have
shown that images needed to be contrast enhanced and color corrected to
achieve reliable detection. 
